README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/centic9/commons-audio.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/centic9/commons-audio) [![Gradle Status](https://gradleupdate.appspot.com/centic9/commons-audio/status.svg?branch=master)](https://gradleupdate.appspot.com/centic9/commons-audio/status)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/centic9/commons-audio.svg)](https://github.com/centic9/commons-audio/releases)
[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.dstadler/commons-audio/badge.svg?style=flat)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.dstadler/commons-audio) [![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/org.dstadler/commons-audio.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.dstadler/commons-audio)

This is a small library of code-pieces that I find useful when developing tools and applications around handling of
audio, playing sound, downloading audio from certain websites, ...

## Contents

Here an (incomplete) list of bits and pieces in this lib:
* A simple AudioPlayer interface and implementations via JLayer, MP3-SPI and TarsosDSP libraries
* Interfaces for buffering audio data in a flexible SeekableRingBuffer
* Downloading ranges of audio-streams from local files or HTTP
* Accessing information about sessions of the Austrian radio station FM4
* An implementation of the SeekableRingBuffer which also provides persisting to disk
* A system for playing sound at different tempo via the TarsosDSP libraries for stretching/condensing audio on-the-fly
* A basic Stream class for holding information about streams that are played  

## Use it

### Gradle

    compile 'org.dstadler:commons-audio:1.+'

## Change it

### Grab it

    git clone git://github.com/centic9/commons-audio

### Build it and run tests

	cd commons-audio
	./gradlew check jacocoTestReport

### Release it

    ./gradlew --console=plain release && ./gradlew closeAndReleaseRepository
    
* This should automatically release the new version on MavenCentral
* Afterwards go to https://github.com/centic9/commons-audio/releases and add release-notes

#### Licensing
* commons-audio is licensed under the [BSD 2-Clause License].

[BSD 2-Clause License]: https://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php

Commit message:

Add a section "usage" to the README which describes some possible ways of using the components

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/centic9/commons-audio.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/centic9/commons-audio)
[![Gradle Status](https://gradleupdate.appspot.com/centic9/commons-audio/status.svg?branch=master)](https://gradleupdate.appspot.com/centic9/commons-audio/status)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/centic9/commons-audio.svg)](https://github.com/centic9/commons-audio/releases)
[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.dstadler/commons-audio/badge.svg?style=flat)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.dstadler/commons-audio)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/org.dstadler/commons-audio.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/org.dstadler/commons-audio)

This is a small library of code-pieces that I find useful when developing tools and applications around handling of
audio, playing sound, downloading audio from certain websites, ...

## Contents

Here an (incomplete) list of bits and pieces in this lib:
* A simple AudioPlayer interface and implementations via JLayer, MP3-SPI and TarsosDSP libraries
* Interfaces for buffering audio data in a flexible SeekableRingBuffer
* Downloading ranges of audio-streams from local files or HTTP
* Accessing information about sessions of the Austrian radio station FM4
* An implementation of the SeekableRingBuffer which also provides persisting to disk
* A system for playing sound at different tempo via the TarsosDSP libraries for stretching/condensing audio on-the-fly
* A basic Stream class for holding information about streams that are played  

## Usage

This is the core of some of my audio applications, it allows to buffer audio-data in the application
and have one thread fetch the audio data from somewhere, e.g. from file or from a HTTP download or a
live stream of some radio-station. Another thread can read from the stream and handle sending the audio
to the local player.

Reading will wait if the buffer is full, i.e. if reading is faster than writing (which it usually should be).

Writing will wait for new data if the buffer is empty, i.e. if writing is faster, which indicats some problem
with the stream or a slow internet connection.

Via this buffering and the support for playing audio at different speed you can build some very powerful
applications, e.g. playing a radio-station, but allowing the user to skip forward/backward, e.g. to skip
across ads or if the content is not interesting, e.g. news broadcasts which repeat the same story very often.

You can play the audio a bit slower if the play-position is near the "head" of the buffer or playing a bit 
faster if the play position is at the "tail", thus ensuring that over time there is always some buffer
available for skipping back and forward a few minutes.

## Use it

### Gradle

    compile 'org.dstadler:commons-audio:1.+'

## Change it

### Grab it

    git clone git://github.com/centic9/commons-audio

### Build it and run tests

	cd commons-audio
	./gradlew check jacocoTestReport

### Release it

    ./gradlew --console=plain release && ./gradlew closeAndReleaseRepository
    
* This should automatically release the new version on MavenCentral
* Afterwards go to https://github.com/centic9/commons-audio/releases and add release-notes

#### Licensing

* commons-audio is licensed under the [BSD 2-Clause License].

[BSD 2-Clause License]: https://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php
